# js training

12 Factor app
The 12-factor app is a set of 12 principles or best practices for building web applications 
1.Codebase
It says that every application should have its own codebase .and this codebase must be in a version control system like Git.Multiple applications should not use same codebase.
2.Dependencies
this factor says that we must declare the dependencies in the manifest file, a file containing the metadata for the dependencies like name, version. It increases the speed of the development as now the developer is free from the task of managing the correct version of the libraries. Developer do not have to manage all of this
3.Config
This factor says that we should store the configuration values in the environment variables.We should not hardcode any configuration values as constants in the codebase.Code must remain same irrespective of the place we are deploying it at.
4.Backing Services
 Any service that our application consumes over the network is known as a backing service.This factor says that our application must treat these services as resources which it is consuming over the network.We should not make it as a part of our application.If this resource is replaced by some other resource, then our appplication should not face anny issue in using another service.
 5.Build,Release and Run
This factor states that our application must have a strict separation between the build, release, and run stages.
Build stage: transform the code into an executable package
Release stage: get the build package from the build stage and combines with the configurations of the deployment environment and make our application ready to run.
Run stage: running application in the actual execution environment.
6.Processes
This factor states that our application must store any type of data generated by it in any persistent (stateful) datastore.Usage of sticky sessions must be avoided. Sticky sessions refers to catching the logged-in user’s session data in the local memory of the process.
7.Port Binding
it means that our app should bind itself to a port to handle incoming request.It means that our application remains standalone instead of deploying them into any of the external web servers.
8.Concurrency
This factor states that our application must be divided into smaller different processes instead of a single large application. Each such process must be able to start, terminate and replicate itself independently and at any time.This factor suggests to opt-in for horizontal scaling instead of vertical scaling.
9.Disposability
This factor states that our application must have high robustness.Robustness refers to the graceful starting and termination of its processes without affecting the overall application’s functionality.
10.Development/Production Parity
This factor states that devlopment and production environment must be as same as possible means all technologies must be similar .This helps in the continuous deployment of our application and reduces the development time and efforts.This will help to reduce the unexpected errors in production and reduce our time.
11.Logs
This factor states to treat logs as event streams. Logging is crucial for keeping a check on the behavior of your application,but our application should not be concerned with managing these logs. Instead, it should treat log entries as event streams.The app logs will be written as standard outputs, but the execution environment will take care of its storage, capture.
12.Admin Processes
this factor is about managing our application.This factor states that the application should run management or admin tasks in an identical environment as the app’s regular and long-running processes. 


Atomic Design
Atomic design, developed by Brad Frost and Dave Olsen, is a methodology for crafting design systems with five fundamental building blocks, which, when combined, promote consistency, modularity, and scalability.
The five distinct levels of atomic design —
1.Atoms
Basic building blocks of matter.These include basic HTML elements like form labels, inputs, buttons, and others that can’t be broken down any further.They are not useful on their own.
2.Molecules
Grouping atoms together, such as combining a button, input and form label to build functionality. molecules are  simple groups of UI elements functioning together as a unit. For example, a form label, search input, and button can join together to create a search form molecule.
3.Organisms
Combining molecules together to form organisms that make up a distinct section of an component.Example- a header of a web page
4.Templates
Consisting mostly of groups of organisms to form a page — where clients can see a final design in place.
5.Pages
An ecosystem that views different template renders. We can create multiple ecosystems into a single environment — the application. 
